In this lecture, we are going to learn what are Jenkins plug ins and how to install them.
Plug ins are the primary means of enhancing the functionality of a Jenkins environment to satisfy organization
or user specific needs.
Let's say, for example, you want to integrate your GitHub repository with your Jenkins job.
So to do that, you could write a bunch of groovy programs where you call GitHub API, you pass your
authentication, and then you build everything that you want to do with the GitHub repository.
But this would be very tedious.
Instead, you can install a ready to use Jenkins plugin for GitHub and all you need to input is your
repository and user ID and password.
Another plugin example could be if you want to run your Jenkins job in a Docker container, you could
simply install a Docker container plugin for Jenkins, which will allow you to do that.
So it does all the heavy lifting for you so that you can just use it.
Plugins or one of Jenkins superpower.
So Jenkins has over 1800 plus community contributed plugins and if needed, you can write your own plugin
as well.
Let's say you want to find plugin for Docker.
So you can simply search Docker and you could see all the plugins that are available.
The number of plugins could be a little overwhelming.
So as we go through reusable projects and real world projects, I will point out what plugins you should
be installing.
Let's jump into our Jenkins console to Access plugin.
You can either go manage Jenkins or more conveniently click this down arrow by dashboard, manage Jenkins
and then manage plugins.
I want to click this.
So when Jenkins get installed, Jenkins automatically installs some of the common plugins.
So if you click this install tab, it is going to show you the plugins that's already installed.
So Git is a critical component to work with any DevOps tools.
So if you scroll down.
You can see it installed this git client plugin, git plugin and GitHub API plugin.
Now by default, Docker plugin is not installed to find and install a plugin.
You go back up, click this available tab and on the search bar type in the name of the plugin or part
of the name and you could see this plugins, Docker, Docker, Pipeline, Docker API, etc..
So if you click this plugin, it is going to give a little overview.
Plugin allows containers to be dynamically provisions as Jenkins node using Docker and down the line
we have a bunch of Docker container demos that uses this plugin, so I'm going to install this.
So I want to click this checkmark and you have to option install without restart and download now and
install after restart.
Most of the cases you can do install without restart.
It is going to download the plugin onto your DC two box and then run the installation.
Scroll down and for this plugin you could see it says you can start using the installed plugin right
away.
So click this, go back to the top of the page, brings back to the dashboard and then if you go dashboard
manage Jenkins, manage plugins again, click installed and if you scroll down, you should see the
Docker plugin.
There you go.
It shows the Docker plugin and if you want, you can uninstall the plugin as well and you can simply
click this red x icon which will uninstall it.
You can only only uninstall certain plugins.
Certain plugins are integrated with the core of Jenkins, so you cannot really uninstall them.
All right.
So that's about it.
The plugin very important component of Jenkins.
This is why Jenkins is so powerful.
That's it for this one.
Join me in the next lecture.